
--- Page 13 ---
Examples of these software packages are HP BTO and LANDesk.
One specific type of network monitoring system is designed to monitor the availability of web
servers. For large enterprises that use a pool of web servers that are distributed worldwide, these
systems help to quickly detect problems at any location. Website monitoring services available on
the Internet include Munities.
Simple Network Management Protocol
Simple Network Management Protocol is a popular management protocol that includes network
monitoring software. SNMP is the most widely used network monitoring and management protocol.
It includes:
• The devices in the network that is being monitored
• Agent software on the monitored devices
• A network management system (NMS), which is a toolset on a server that monitors each
device on a network and communicates information about those devices
Administrators can use SNMP monitor and manage aspects of their networks by:
• Gathering information on how much bandwidth is being used on the network
• Active polling the network devices to ask for a status at specified intervals
• Notifying the admin by text message of a device failure
• Collecting error reports, which can be used for troubleshooting
• Emailing an alert when the server reaches a specified low disk space level
SNMP v3 is the current version. It should be used because it contains security features that were
missing in versions 1 and 2.
4.10. System Maintenance
Regular maintenance of the networked systems helps them to run more smoothly as well as reduce
the risk of break downs. By having a well-designed maintenance schedule assists you in organizing
your maintenance tasks.
Maintenance Schedule
Although 24/7 access to servers is often necessary, routine maintenance and upgrades are equally
necessary. To prevent inconveniences, you must establish weekly maintenance times for major
systems as follows.
79
Unit 02: Networking

--- Page 14 ---
Table 5.5.1.1 Maintenance Schedule
System Maintenance Times Notice
8 am – 8 pm, Sundays, only as
Will provide 24-48 hours’
needed
Administrative Systems notice when taking down our
administrative servers.
8 am – 8 pm, Sundays, only as
Will provide 24-48 hours’
needed
Network Services notice when taking down our
Novell servers.
When a longer down time is
Moodle 5:00 am to 7:30 am, Thursdays required, will provide 24-48
hours’ notice.
5:00 am to 7:30 am, Thursdays
When a longer down time is
Typically, windows servers will
Servers required, will provide 24-48
be patched either the third or
hours’ notice.
fourth Thursday of each
month.
Networking and Internet
Infrastructure (including 5:00 am to 7:30 am, Thursdays No additional notice.
wireless system)
Will provide 24-48 hours’
Telephone No weekly schedule required notice when taking down the
phone/ voicemail service.
When maintenance is
VMWARE Infrastructure No weekly schedule required required, affected users will be
contacted
Activity
Design a maintenance schedule to support a networked system
80
Unit 02: Networking
